Add apps quickstart (#598)
saleor/saleor-docs: docs/developer/extending/apps/quickstart/creating-app.mdx

---
title: Creating an app
---

## Summing up

> Before we continue, let's sum up what should we have up until this point:

Author: ```suggestion
Before we continue, let's sum up what we should have up until this point:
```

- a Saleor account assigned to an organization
- a Saleor Dashboard for a project we want to extend with an app
- Saleor CLI installed

:::tip
If at any point you feel you've got lost, feel free to peek into the corresponding [repository 🖥️](https://github.com/saleor/saleor-app-abandoned-checkouts).
:::

All good? Let's start building then 🚀!

## Step 1. Spawning the App Template

> Saleor CLI provides developers with a modern (built with Next.js and TypeScript) app template. It includes all the boilerplate and dependencies needed to further develop a Saleor app.

Author: ```suggestion
Saleor CLI provides developers with a modern app template, built with Next.js and TypeScript. It includes the boilerplate and all dependencies needed for further development of a Saleor app.
```

To spawn it, go to your terminal, `cd` to the path where you want to install the template and type in:

```shell
saleor app create abandoned-checkouts
```

:::note
Under the hood, the `saleor app create` command uses the Saleor App Template repository. If you want to read up on it, go [here](developer/extending/apps/developing-apps/app-template.mdx).
:::

This command will install a Next.js app called `abandoned-checkouts` equipped with many tools that'll come in handy during the process of integration.

After the successful installation, you have to `cd` into the `abandoned-checkouts` directory, and boot up the project using [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/). The command is:

```shell
pnpm dev
```

## Step 2. Updating the App Manifest

> [The App Manifest](developer/extending/apps/manifest.mdx) serves as the source of information about the Saleor app. It includes the app name, description, URL, as well as configuration for webhooks and extensions. The information is then consumed by other Saleor parties, such as the API and the Dashboard.

Author: ```suggestion
[The App Manifest](developer/extending/apps/manifest.mdx) serves as a source of information about the Saleor app. It includes the app name, description, URL, as well as configuration for webhooks and extensions. The data is then consumed by other Saleor parties such as the API and the Dashboard.
```

:::note
Don't worry, you don't need to fill the manifest yourself. The data is automatically drawn from the `package.json` file and the context in which the app is running.

> :::

Reviewer: Probably not true anymore, its not using package.json, maybe just to get the version number. But maybe something like "in app-template generated by CLI, basic manifest is already generated"?

Some apps don't require a UI. They can simply communicate through webhooks without displaying an interface.

> However, the purpose of our application is to render a list of abandoned checkouts. This gives us a perfect chance to leverage one of many cool features baked-in in the app template the CLI has spawned for us: mounting an app in the Saleor Dashboard.

Author: ```suggestion
However, the purpose of our application is to render a list of abandoned checkouts. This gives us a perfect chance to leverage one of many cool baked-in features in the app template the CLI has spawned for us: mounting an app in the Saleor Dashboard.
```

	{
		label: "Show Abandoned Checkouts",
		mount: "NAVIGATION_ORDERS",
		target: "APP_PAGE",
		permissions: ["MANAGE_CHECKOUTS"],
		url: "/",
	},
],
...
```

Let's break down what we have here:

- The `extensions` comes from [the "extendability" of the Dashboard](developer/extending/apps/extending-dashboard-with-apps.mdx#key-concepts).
- There can be many "extensions" for each app. That is why the value of `extensions` is an array.
- The array contains an object with five fields:
  - `label`: A name of our extension. It will display in the Dashboard menu.
  - `mount`: An identifier of [the place where we can mount our apps](developer/extending/apps/extending-dashboard-with-apps.mdx#possible-mounting-places).
  - `target`: It describes the method of presenting the interface. The other option is `POPUP`.
  - `permissions`: It allows blocking access from the extension based on **user** permissions. If the users don't have the right permissions, they won't be able to display the extension.
  - `url`: The path in the application the extension should render. As we will build our UI in the `pages/index.tsx` file, the path is "/".

## Step 3. Installing the app in the Dashboard

:::tip

> In the next couple of paragraphs, you will see the term "tunneling" being thrown quite frequently. If it all sounds a bit foreign, please head on [here](developer/extending/apps/developing-with-tunnels.mdx).

Author: ```suggestion
In the next couple of paragraphs, you will see the term "tunneling" being thrown quite frequently. If it all sounds a bit foreign, please head on over [here](developer/extending/apps/developing-with-tunnels.mdx).
```

:::

### Option 1: Using `saleor app tunnel`

> Right now, you develop your app locally. To embed it in your Dashboard hosted on Saleor Cloud, you need to make your environment public. Luckily, the CLI has your back on this one.

Author: ```suggestion
At this moment, you are developing your app locally. To embed it in your Dashboard hosted on Saleor Cloud, you need to make your environment public. Luckily, the CLI has your back on this one.
```

:::important
`3000` is the assumed port on which your application is running. If you decided to run it on a different port, please adjust the command.
:::

The result of running this command is twofold:

- It exposes your local environment through tunneling software. That makes it available publicly.
- It installs your app in the Dashboard which makes it display under the location we pointed out in the previous point.

### Option 2: Using a third-party tunneling software and `saleor app install`

Alternatively, you can make your app live using a third-party tool. To set the tunnel manually, you can use [localtunnel](https://theboroer.github.io/localtunnel-www/) or [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/). Follow the installation guides linked.

Then, go to your terminal and:

1. While in the app's root folder, type in `saleor app install`.
2. Provide the `name` for the app: `abandoned-checkouts`.
3. Provide the `url` to the app's manifest, following the format: _[yourdomain-set-with-tunneling-app]/api/manifest_.

---

Either way, you can now go to your Saleor Dashboard and inspect your app in the _Apps_ tab, as well as the _Orders_ tab.

> ![Admin Dashboard with App installed.](../../../screenshots/apps-quickstart/app-installed.png)

Reviewer: this is very old template, maybe lets update it, so its not confusing
